hello I am Jason better known as Jayden
ninja and I am here with a quick little
tip on how to make panel gaps in blender
using just the modifiers so just give it
a quick little example I'm gonna add a
UV sphere here just living it up a bit
and shade it all right so let's say we
wanted to make this some sort of exotic
sci-fi ball and we wanted to look like
yours made out of multiple interlocking
panels now we can actually do that a
blender using just the modifier stack so
we never have to modify our base mesh so
the first thing we need to do is drop
into any mode really quick and this is
going to be the only step we do in edit
mode is we're just going to mark where
we want the panel gaps probably do those
edges that's a little complicated path
here maybe down there maybe outline it
like that
we'll make another panel going this way
alright that's pretty good so first of
all we need to flag these actually being
gaps for blender so who'd control eat
and hit mark sharp and that won't
actually change your model at all in
edit mode it'll just tell blender that
markers where edge splits need to be so
go ahead and hit tab drop out and mode
won't need to be used that many more go
over to your modifier stack and the
first thing we need to do is actually
use those sharp edges to split the mesh
so go ahead and add an edge split
modifier at the top
uncheck edge angle we're not gonna be
using that and there you can kind of see
we have little gaps and that it doesn't
look like panels yet but we'll get there
so I had another modifier below that
solidify getting somewhere first of all
go ahead and drop over to the mesh panel
select Auto smooth and change it to 30
degrees that way we don't have the weird
distortion around the solidifies in
second on the solidify modifier good
under this checkbox called
only rim and enable it that'll prevent
solidify from making a back face which
we're never gonna see on this anyway and
it saves a whole lot of Poly's you see
when you flip it off our triangle count
goes eight and a half thousand move it
back on we're back to four thousand
which is only slightly more than the
model with no modifiers at all so
finally to make those actually look like
a nice for out of gaps we're gonna add
bevel at the bottom and go ahead and set
it to angle offset for some more
complicated panel gaps you may need to
use weight or vertex group to actually
mark where your gap edges are but in
this case this is a simple enough design
that we can do it was just edge angle in
no there you go we've cut panel gaps and
the great thing about this is it's
totally non-destructive you can drop
into edit mode and decide no I don't
really like there being a panel edge
there we just select those edges ctrl e
clear sharp don't work out there if we
decide we want say this entire edge here
to be a gap select it ctrl mark sharp
it's a panel gap so I hope that helps
you with your little
sci fi sphere doodads and thank you for
watching